So we've seen in the last couple of lectures two ways in order to refresh this iframe and reflect the changes
that we do here and the actual website.
So the first one was refreshing the whole iframe. So we have to contact the server and tell it I want
to refresh the iframe. And that of course is a bit slow and it takes some time.
So we've seen another way to do it using the JavaScript callbacks and using this way we don't have to communicate
with the server at all.
And thus this way is the fastest and you almost see the changes real time. But we also mentioned that this
way will have its drawbacks that you will need to duplicate your PHP logic in JavaScript and that could
be not very practical.
So lets see
in this lecture a third way to refresh what you change here in the website preview using what's called
Selective Refresh.
So the Refresh method will refresh the whole iframe the Selective Refresh will refresh just some part
of the iframe.
So how it works is that when you send an Ajax request to the server and tell the server we need to fetch
this part instead of fetching the whole website.
So I think it's better to see this in action.
So let's go to our code and what we have to do is create something called a partial.
So it's also in $wp_customize.
And we will access the selective refresh object, "selective_refresh". And then a method called
add_partial().
So this partial gets an ID and will see this in a moment and an array of options.
So the first option is the settings.
And this could be an array of settings.
So you put the ID of the settings here.
And whenever these settings are changed this parcel will get fetched.
So say we need to do this for the blogname so we can put the "blogname" here.
However if you named a partial after the setting you don't have to add the settings array.
You only have to add the settings array if you have multiple settings that you need to fetch this partial for
when they are changed. So let's add the second argument which is a "selector". And a selector is the HTML
selector that we will replace the content in.
So we have the header logo here
or actually the blogname.
So when we change the Site Title here we need to replace the text inside the blogname. So this selector is
what we need, so.
And we have another important argument called "container_inclusive".
And what that means is when we load this partial do we want to replace just the content inside this
A tag, inside this class or replace the whole A tag?
So in this case it's "false" we just need to replace the contents inside the A tag. the last and the most important
argument is the "render_callback".
And this is the function that will return the content that we want to replace the stuff inside header
blogname with.
So let's create a function and we can also create this function here or anywhere and then write its name here.
But it's not gonna be a big function so anonymous function will be faster, so.
So what we need to do here is run a PHP function that will return what we need to return here.
So, and in our case we need to get the blog title.
So we get it the same way we got as in the header.
So we can return what's return from this function.
So let's copy that and just paste here. And let's see what will happen now.
And let's also open the Network tab and clear it. And select Ajax request here. And let's now change the
title.
And as you can see it's a bit slower than the JavaScript one but also it did not refresh the whole
website. It just refreshed this part.
And as you can see in the network whenever we change something in Ajax request get sent. And what's returned
here is the contents, the content that is returned by this render_callback function.
So great. So what we've done here is instead of refreshing the whole website we are just sending a small Ajax
request in order to get the contents just for this part and not the all website.
So let's do the same thing for our footer text.
So let's actually copy this instead of typing the whole thing.
And then let's paste. Let's give it an ID that is unique and not a setting name. So "_themename"
and let's call it "footer_partial".
And this time we'll set the settings in this array instead of the ID the partial. So we run this partial
when the site info is changed.
So we put the "_themename_site_info" ID inside here. And the selector we need to replace the contents of
this site-info DIV.
So let's add this.
So and "container-inlusive" we'll see this in a moment. So let's see what we need to run here.
So let's go to the footer and let's see what we do in order to get this site
info parts.
So we run get_template_part() and then get this template. So we can do exactly the same thing.
So let's copy this.
So this is one more advantage of using get_template_parts(). We can use them to load the little pieces of code
in the partials here.
So let's do that.
And now the get_template_part(), it will return the what is contained in the info, which is here.
So what's contained the info contains in the site-info class.
So if we leave the "container-inclusive" to "false" it will get the template part which contains the site-
info class and then add it in the site info class again. So we'll have site-info class in inside of it another
site-info class.
So this time we want to set "container-inclusive" to "true". So that way the partial will replace the whole
site-info class that already exists and we do not put the contents inside of it.
So I hope that's clear.
And oh by the way when we use partials we still need to set the transport to postMessage. And that way
we will avoid refreshing the whole iframe.
But if a partial exists for this setting it won't run the JavaScript callbacks.
It will however load the partial instead.
So let's try that.
And as you can see it added the button here. It's accurately positioned but we can adjust that with CSS.
But let's, right for  now, let's click on it and it will take you directly to the setting. And then when
we change something we just load this part of the website
As you can see here if we type a lot of text it will wait until we stop and then send one request. It
won't send a request for each character we type. So great.
You know, we are not able to exactly preview here what will be previewed in the actual website because we use
the same function. And we are not loading the entire iframe.
It may be a little bit slower than the JavaScript but it's iterative I think it's it has a real advantage
of not repeating your PHP code in JavaScript. And also as I mentioned if you add more, we only have
one setting now, but if you add more settings in that setting array you can refresh this partial for many settings
and not just one. And we'll use that later in the course when we add more options.
One more thing before ending this lecture. Let's close this. If we add widgets now let's say in the footer.
It refreshes the whole website. And you can also use Selective Refresh for widgets but you have, your theme
have to opt in to support that.
So let's go to the theme support file.
And let's add another line. And this will be of course "add_theme_support" and the feature is called "customize-
selective-
refresh-widgets".
So when we support this feature it, and refresh the customizer. And let's add a widget now.
And it will load for the first time because we don't have any widgets. But let's try now and add another
one. Calendar. And it will be added and let's try new order without refreshing at all.
And you also now get these buttons here that when you click it will open the setting for this widget.
So great. So you can also notice that WordPress internally uses
Selective Refresh for the navigation as well.
And we've already seen that when we refresh, when we reorder the only the menu get refreshed.
Great. So now that we know all the different options that we can use.
Let's now try and add some more options.
We still have the footer columns and default background and stuff like that.
So let's do that in the next lecture.